Hymn Research - Cebuano
Closes in 20 days
Hymn Research - Cebuano
Closes in 20 days
Study ID
26005
Category
Other/Miscellaneous
Research Type
Copyright Research
Expiration Date
28 July 2026
This Study is directed to finding Cebuano translations of various hymns.

 
 Description
For this Study, we are looking for Cebuano  translations of various hymns.  The text and identifying information for these hymns can be accessed using the link provided below. 

The information requested for each translation is as follows (you will be prompted to supply this when making your submission): 

English Hymn name for which you are submitting a translation
Complete translated hymn text, including the translated title
Name of the translator (including date and place of birth and death (if known; please do not guess)
Date translation was published (if known; please do not guess)
Where the translation was published/identified, e.g., publication title, date, place, page number where hymn can be found, URL, etc
For each translation submitted, you will be asked for the above information in the submission form.  Please fill out as much of this information as possible.  The more information you can provide, the more likely you are to receive a reward for the submission.

You will also be asked to provide the URL or other source (book title and bibliographic info) for each piece of information so that the information can be verified if necessary.

Lastly, you will be asked to submit an attachment in pdf form including one of the following: 

Images from the document/hymnal where the translation was located; showing hymnal cover and copyright page, text of hymn with musical accompaniment. (images supporting the information provided on the translator are also welcome)
Screenshots from the website from which the translation was obtained (these should be directly from the URL provided in the submission form).
Once submitted, you will be asked to highlight some of the above pieces of information in the attachment.

Each submission should be directed to a SINGLE Cebuano translation corresponding to a hymn from the below list, from a SINGLE source.

Do not translate hymns yourself or run them through an AI translator or Google translate.  Rather, research where, when and by whom they have already been translated!

Also, some of the hymns in the list have been altered since the last set of studies so please use this most current list.

Research Tips

We are interested in seeing translations from various sources, such as hymn books from multiple different religious denominations.  Please note if you have access to or can go to a library that has access to these books, this may be the best way to find some of the rare hymns.  Other possible sources are as follows:

National Libraries:  Consult the library catalogs associated with the target language being researched.
Indexes of Denominational Hymnals, for example, indexes of Seventh-day Adventist, Baptist, and Methodist hymnals for possible translations. Some translations of these hymnals are available on apps. Both iOS and android apps should be consulted. 
YouTube videos.
This list is a starting point, but other relevant sources should also be searched. During the course of the Study, we will direct you through leads to those hymns for which we are still in need of data. You may want to perform a text search using the full first line of the hymn in quotation marks rather than just the title. Searching only by title may yield unexpected or inaccurate results.

Searching by tune name and/or composer with key words is often helpful in locating lyrics.

We may reach out with leads and/or surveys over the course of the Study to indicate/determine which hymns still need to be searched.  For example, if nothing has been submitted for a particular hymn, we may request proof of that hymn having been searched, at which point we will also accept one other type of submission: 

The specific search strategy used, listing the following:

Hymn searched
Databases searched
Search strings used
Results summary (showing number of results; what was/was not identified)
These types of submissions will be considered in-scope and be considered for rewards as described below if they help to ascertain that a particular hymn was searched but nothing was identified.

Please note that we are not asking you to translate the hymns yourself or run them through an AI translator or Google translate, but to research where, when, and by whom they have already been translated.

Also note that if you are not sure of the translator or the date information about the translator, please leave it out.  We are only interested in accurate verifiable information.

Below is the list of hymns of interest (please use the following link to access the text and identifying information for each hymn: https://azuksaopblb01.blob.core.windows.net/web-public/HymnResearch_English.zip

Screenshot_2026-06-22_at_12.07.39_PM
https://azuksaopblb01.blob.core.windows.net/studydocs/843554e282de7b2c6d1adfc0cbd85b30_26005-Screenshot_2026-06-22_at_12.07.39_PM.png

 Research Requirements 
1 
hymn title

2 
translated hymn text

3 
name of the translator (including date and place of birth and death if possible)

4 
date and location of publication or copyright information

